# Meeting 16 Mar 2018

This document: [2018-03-16](meetings/2018-03-16-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP
 
## Agenda

- [x] set date for next meeting
- [x] review agenda
- [x] review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [x] note choice of LDP container
- [x] note location of sample working set scripts and data
- [x] review structure of sample working set design; any known outstanding concerns?
- [x] review and revise timeline

### Resolutions

1. Use by-reference semantics for NiN fragments (rather than copying content into working set container)
    (See "NiN working set minimum requirements review" below)

### Previous actions carried forward

- [ ] 20180306.5 JP: Transfer data from NiN into working set in LDP container
- [ ] 20180306.8 JP: Get NiN running from virtial machine (thalassa)

### New actions

1. [x] GK: update meeting notes (today; later)
2. [x] GK: post question about LDP container recommendations to SWIG list
3. [x] JP: push working set minimum requirements scripts+data to github (by today)
    - Data loading in spike/create-working-set
    - Example data in:
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/notes/Example-WorkingSet-Fragments.ttl
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/notes/Example-WorkingSet-LinkedFragments.ttl
4. [ ] GK: review working set minimum requirements and feedback (by Thursday 22, sooner if possible)
5. [x] JP: push working set creation scripts to github (by today)
6. [ ] JP: chase NiN deployment progress with DDeR
7. [ ] JP: chase progress of NiN fragment storage options with DDeR
8. [ ] JP: initiate discussion of NiN export triggers with DDeR
9. [ ] JP: put some NiN test data on thassala to enable progress while waiting for NiN deployment

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-03-22 14:00

Draft agenda next meeting:

- [ ] set date for next meeting
- [ ] review agenda
- [ ] review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] Title, presenters, tech requirements for 26 April demo day presentation (see below)
- [ ] ???
- [ ] review progress with DDeR on NiN and remixer interface
- [ ] review and revise timeline; check implications of leave around Easter

From Jasmina:

> Can you please get back to me asap (latest by the 26 March) with the titles of your contributions, the names of the presenters and your technical requirements for the FAST show and tell session at the QM Ideas Unwrapped event on 26 April?

> We met at our QM group meeting on Tuesday and we have drafted a list of contributions from Queen Mary. Currently there are 8 contributions from QM, subject to availability of the presenters.


## Review actions

Previous meeting: [2018-03-06](meetings/2018-03-06-meeting.md)

### Older actions

All complete or superseded.

### Actions from last meeting

1. [x] JP: LDP container selected, installed and running
2. [x] JP: Some scripts to load data into LDP, and retrieve (proving LDP load/store capability)
    - see 4.
3. [x] JP: Initial minimal working set content design
    - some sample data for 2 different ways to approach this
    - ACTION: JP: push scripts+data to github (by today)
    - ACTION: GK: review and feedback (by tursday 22, sooner if possible)
4. [x] JP: Scripts to create sample working set
    - have some local scripts and data to create working set
    - not yet in GitHub - place in spike/<makeworkingset>
    - some code to prove updates
    - ACTION: JP: push scripts+data to github (by today)
5. [ ] JP: Transfer data from NiN into working set in LDP container
    - no progress
6. [x] GK: Dispose of GK comments on model (merge into text)
7. [x] GK: Update meeting notes, push to Github
8. [ ] JP: Get NiN running from virtial machine (thalassa)
    - ongoing...

## Review other activities

### LDP container investigations

(See W3C [LDP Implementations](https://www.w3.org/wiki/LDP_Implementations) page)

Looked at Apache Marmotta, hasn't been updated since late 2014, looks dead. (Lesson: check repoositories!)

Active LDP containers appear to be SoLID.  Didn't check triple stores with LDP add-on.  This might be an avenue.

Also tried: [ldnode](https://www.w3.org/wiki/LDP_Implementations#ldnode_.28Server.29).  Complicated by node dependencies, etc.

Currently selected GOLD "LDP reference implementation". (github/linked-data.gold).  Not without its issues.

Not without issues, but appears to be usable and is a live project.  Bits don't work.

GOLD (SoLiD support). Deployed on laptop.  Needs ACL configuration.

A bit flaky.  Unexpected error reporting is unhelpful.


#### Future considerations

May wany to consider alternatives.

Consider triple-store add-ons (e.g. Virtuoso+LDP).

(Callimachus may be an option - not checked)

(access control putting off public deployment)

Propose: stick with GOLD for now.

ACTION: GK: post question to SWIG list


### NiN working set minimum requirements review

RESOLVED: Use by-reference semantics for NiN fragments

ACTION: JP: push working set minimum requirements scripts+data to github (by today)

ACTION: GK: review working set minimum requirements and feedback (by Thursday 22, sooner if possible)

JP has created some sample data for 2 different ways to approach this. Will add information about data/samples to github by end of day.

1. Fragments as currently published as linked data in LDP container, referencing MEI from numbersintonotes.net
2. Working set as an LDP container of "Fragment reference", where a "fragment" is an `mo:Score` (etc.) for a selected part of a composition generated by NiN.

Basic question: copy/import metadata, or reference at numbersintonotes??
NiN creates immutable data, so either way can work.

Some discussion of ORE vs annotation container (prompted initially by ORE proxy idea).

If using "by reference" semantics for fragment; may later decide to snapshot into another LDP container.

Looks as if NiN fragment data is OK for now.  May well need changes in future as we move beyond minimum viable product.

#### For future discussion

Use Web Annotation container or ORE?  Plat to get some more experience first.

For exposing information used for fragment matching (e.g. key): plan to add metadata to NiN fragments.

Exposing information about the matching process (e.g. results from compatibility service): plan to use annotation of fragment, probably in a distinct annotation container.

Not currently represented in NiN fragmnent metadata:

- length of fragment (probably in beats).  Beats per minute is available separately from NiN.

Working set import to new working set: by value or by reference (or both)?


### NiN deployment

ACTION: JP: chase NiN deployment progress with DDeR

Activity is ongoing, not complete.

JP has taken a look at what needs to be done.

Server machine (thalassa) is set up with basic support facilities (Apache, etc.).

Waiting on input from DDeR (services running on server: not sure where service support code is)

Activity is ongoing, with some dependency on DDeR input.  We have assessed that other activities are not blocked by any delay to this, and will consider a revised plan if this changes.


### NiN data in LDP container

(No progress)

This would be best progressed with NiN running on the new server

Have some issues with request proxying - if data on same server, can eliminate proxying, which will facilitate this process.

Awaiting changes fromn DDeR.

NOTE: we are separating maniually triggered import to the remixer (which may be done by a separate script) from export to a working set triggered directly from NiN.

ACTION: JP: chase progress of NiN fragment storage options with DDeR

ACTION: JP: initiate discussion of NiN export triggers with DDeR

In the meanwhile, can put dummy data on server where NiN *will* put it.

ACTION: JP: put some test data on thassala to enable progress on other fronts


## Tech issues needing investigation

Nothing at moment.


## Next steps and timeline

NOTE: industry day demo trial run is 2018-04-28 (~6 elapsed weeks from this meeting)


### Next week timeline

- Day 1:

    Scripts and data in github for review

- Day 2:

    Import from NiN (manual invocation of import); scripts in github

    Initiate coordination with DDeR about working set export from NiN triggers

- Days 3 onwards

    Core UI for remixer
    - single working set import/load and basic display
    - multiple working set import and basic display


### Overall rough timeline

- Week 2:

    Import from NiN (manual invocation of import); scripts in github

    Initiate coordination with DDeR about working set export from NiN triggers

    Core UI for remixer
    - single working set import/load and basic display
    - multiple working set import and basic display

- Week 3:

    Simple fragment compatibility service (focus on interface)
    Core UI for remixer
    - fragment assembly / score generation

- Week 4:

    Audio generation from current "score"
    MEI document generation ("score")
    Core UI for remixer
    - audio playback

- Week 5:

    DMO Export logic
    Core UI for remixer
    - DMO export
    Integration, testing and improvement
    Minimum viable product (MVP) demoable

- Week 6:

    Minimum viable product (MVP) reviewed and tweaked


