# Meeting 28 Feb 2018

Present: GK, JP

## Agenda

- [x] review actions
- [x] review RDF structures
- [x] review fragment compatibility description options
- [ ] discuss next steps (not covered)
- [x] set date for next meeting

### New actions

1. [ ] JP post rough initial notes about RDF structures to Github by end of 2018-02-28
2. [x] GK post links to Annalist MELD experiments to date (Climb!) by 2018-02-28
    - http://fast-project.annalist.net/annalist/c/MELD_Climb_performance/
3. [ ] GK review and feedback on RDF structures by 2018-03-05 (pref sooner)
4. [ ] JP post rough initial notes about fragment matching architecture to Github by end of 2018-02-28
5. [ ] GK review and feedback on fragment matching architecture by 2018-03-05 (pref sooner)
6. [x] GK post meeting notes and draft agenda for next meeting

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-03-06, 12:00 (immediately after FAST project meeting)

Draft agenda next meeting:

- [ ] review actions
- [ ] identify particular tech issues needing furtrher investiugation and/or discussion
- [ ] plan next steps
- [ ] set date for next meeting and draft agenda

## Review actions

Previous meeting: [2018-02-20](meetings/2018-02-20-meeting.md)

Older actions:

- [x] JP - "architecture" diagrams from whiteboard sketches (e.g., for presentation)
    - [x] First one "overall architrecture" is done and uploaded
    - [x] Second one (remixer design ideas) - not sure if this is yet appropriate to expend effort
        - subsumed by first diagram
- [-] JP/All - propose possible match "architecture" elements to MELD and related web/LD ideas
    - [x] GK email has thoughts
    - [-] JP is working on a document - no additions past period
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/notes/mapping.md (?)

Actions from [last meeting](meetings/2018-02-20-meeting.md):

- [ ] JP think about RDF structures, come up with proposals
    - no document yet; will post something today
- [ ] JP think about how to access fragment compatibility, come up with proposal
    - no document yet; will post something today


## Review RDF structures

Limited review in absence of shared proposal.  

Looking at [architecture diagram](Architecture.svg) ([PDF](Architecture.pdf)):

Output music ("work"?) use segment ontology to describe assembly of fragments

- (cross-check jam session description in "Take it to9 the Bridge" paper)

Input fragments (from NiN) to be considered as individual "work"s

There was some diuscussion of what is required here.  GK proposes separate written notes (not formal documents) for the exchange and working structures identified in the [architecture diagram](Architecture.svg); e.g.

- Fragment DMOs
- Matched fragments
- Working sets
- Export DMO

Also note that while the architecture suggests these are stored structures, they could be web resources that are generated on the fly.

Initial notes on RDF modelling choices for these will be posted later today (see asction 2018-02-28(1))

When RDF patterns are sufficiently clarified, GK will think about prototyping in Annalist, which will help to generate some more concreate documentaton of the patterns


## Review fragment compatibility description options

Following MELD, will probably use annotations to describe potential matches; can generate a lot of annotations; bound up with working sets(?)

Some possibilities (from last meeting notes):

- single LPD container of matches
- multiple containers of matches for different compatibility models
- match query interface

Also note that while the architecture suggests these are stored structures, they could be web resources that are generated on the fly.  There was some discussion about the role of intermediate musical structures (e.g. key signature), but also suggestion that the broad architectural framework should not constrain match framework.  JP thinks there may be some problems with this if trying to store all possible matches.

(GK, later: not convinced, but maybe need to clarify how fragments are presented for consideration for matching.  A possible requirement previously noted has been the use of CALME-like musical amnalysis services.  Mainly: try to consider interface and implementation as separate issues.)

Initial notes on fragment matching implementation and access will be posted later today (see asction 2018-02-28(4))

