# Meeting 17 August 2018

This document: [2018-08-17](./2018-08-17-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP, (KP)

## Agenda

- [ ] Review agenda
- [ ] Review state of demo; what remains to be done
- [ ] Other tasks for industry day demo and SOFA presentation
- [ ] Next steps

## Resolutions

## Actions

### Previous actions carried forward

- [ ] 20180322.4  JP: Add notes about proposal for NiN export triggers to GitHub
    - SHOULD HAVE (would be good for demo)
- [ ] 20180322.8  JP: Multiple/additional working set import and basic display
      - No activity, ongoing, not a vast amount of work to complete, but not urgent
      - NICE TO HAVE for demo
- [ ] 20180328.7  JP MEI document generation from internal score
      - SHOULD HAVE for demo (but maybe not very visible in demo)
      - NOTE: now assembling multi-part MEI score - affects effort required
      - NOTE: may be affected by decision on action 20180328.8
- [ ] 20180328.8  JP Audio generation from assembled MEI score
      - DEFER consideration: may be superseded by alternative playback option
      - (also note playback is now multi-channel)
- [ ] 20180413.3  JP authenticated access to LDP
    - NOT REQUIRED for demo; but should be addressed before allowing external access to Sofa.  Will probably be provided via HTTP server proxy.

- [x] 20180801.1 JP Push dockerized Numbers-into-Notes setup to GitHub
    - (suggest new repo under Oerc-music)
    - Checked software directories: no visible credentials, but need to work out how to handle dependency on NiN software (e.g. Git subproject?).  But need to push _something_ soon so it's visible, so for now just save directory as-is.
    - DONE: https://github.com/oerc-music/sofa-docker

- [ ] 20180814.1 JP Check out vulnerability reported in GitHub
- [x] 20180814.2 GK Flag to Kevin state of "visualization of SOFA application music flows"

### Actions from last meeting

### New actions

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-??-?? ??:?? -- TO BE SCHEDULED - maybe 2018-10-02?

Draft agenda next meeting:

- [ ] Set date for next meeting
- [ ] Review agenda
- [ ] Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] ...
- [ ] Next steps

<!--
- [ ] Review development progress and blockers
- [ ] Review state of demo: can we ask someone to install/test it?
- [ ] Review and revise timeline
- [ ] ???
-->

## Current development plan and status

Audio playback integration of MIDI libraries:  still incomplete; estimating 1-2d + time to pick up.

MEI note mapping: 2 approaches investigated: Update NiN looks like a simple patch, then have SOFA get MIDI note number from the MEI.  Alternatively, there is some MEI-to-MIDI note number extraction/mapping code in `spike/key_scale_notes`.

Have fixed some problems with the UI interactions (cursor movements, and selection with no matching fragments).  But still want a *remove* fragment option to free up options.

Session save and instrument selection is still to do.


### Last period activities (20180817 to 2018-09-07)

1. Work on audio generation (1.5d)
    - Multi-voice MIDI stream assembly for playback (1.5d)
    - INCOMPLETE: estimating 1-2d + time to pick up.

2. Finish setup scripts and notes for demo system (1d)
    - Have oerc-music/sofa-docker repo for the Docker scripts
    - Could use some finishing up of details, tie in to sofa-docker (see TODO below)

3. Two approaches to getting MIDI note numbers for playback. (a) Update NiN MEI output; (b) incorportate MEI note mapping to MIDI.


### Next period activities (2018-08-17 to 2018-09-11)

(GK away until 2018-09-30)

(Est 5.5d effort to demo-ready)

Expect to hand over for test installation by 2018-09-18 (i.e. by FAST meeting with both MW and JP).

Expect instrument UI by end of same week (2018-09-21)

1. Complete work on audio generation integration
    - Multi-voice MIDI stream assembly for playback
    - Estimating 1-2d + time to pick up.

2. Finish setup scripts and notes for demo system (1d)
    - Finishing up of details, tie in to SOFA-Docker (see TODO below)

3. Implement key-signature-correct MIDI note numbers for playback.  Apply and test patch to NiN. (0.5d)
    - Add @pnum to NiN MEI output; test (esp Verovio rendering)
    - If problem (a) maybe ask DDeR for review; (b) revert to note mapping solution.

4. In SOFA: pull note number data for MIDI playback from MEI (0.5d)

5. MUST HAVE: session save logic (1d)

    Save current state of composition, and session setup (e.g. number of channels, instruments selected, etc.)

6. MUST HAVE: gather instrument list from instrument pitch range match service

7. MUST HAVE: UI for instrument selection on each channel (this was a previously unscheduled requirement)

Total effort remaining for the above 2 items (6, 7) is estimated at 1d


## Other TODOs

- Numbers into Notes VM resurrect

- Regeneration of demo NiN data to include @pnum attrubutes.  Will need to re-run the numbers-into-notes music generation process.

- Export of demo data (confirm in a repo somewhere), with script to load it into LDP.

- Produce a display board for demo illustration (JP to pick up discussion with CC@qmul next week)


## Plan timeline and progress

(Not updated since 2018-08-17)

### Week to 26 June:

(expect little progress due to summer school prep)

### 2 weeks to 10 July (includes week of summer school)

- MUST HAVE: User interface completion for SAAM paper: includes handling multiple channels/parts/voices, and tying in the row and column constraint filters for fragment selection - 2d
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: Recursive scanning of LDP containers - add container indirection logic to annotation scanning/filtering code.  1d.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

### Week to 17 July

- MUST HAVE: Instrument compatibility agent (annotation service) for instrumentation - 2d.
    - needs to scan working set fragments
    - needs to interact with Annalist data
    - needs to set up containers
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: UI elements to set up constraints (e.g. instrument/channel assignments, match criteria selection based on available match services) - 3d for initial functionally complete implementation.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

### Week to 24 July

- MUST HAVE: Handle session setup - configuring a session; session-wide constraint selection.  Driven from config data - UI is separate.  1d.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: Audio generation for assembled fragments; ability to play the composed work in its current state - 2+2d (variable due to unknowns)
    - (Need to decide via MIDI or via MEI - via MIDI will require MIDI handling library; via MEI looks more complicated; and would also need to select samples used, etc.  Assuming for now to use MIDI.)
    - 2018-07-24: **1d used, 3d to go**

### Week to 31 July

- MUST HAVE: Create software release (ask Mat to install and test it) - 1+1d

- MUST HAVE: Tagged, retrievable stable software release in GitHub.

### Week to 7 Aug

- MUST HAVE: Initial set up data for demonstration.  Saved NiN output data so demo can be run without NiN or separete server active.  Additional data will be added as development work proceeds - 1d (initial setup).
    - 2018-07-24: **to start (brought forward to 2018-07-25?)**

Completion of MUST HAVE elements; SHOULD HAVE to review and plan in due course)

### Period to 14 Aug (added 2018-08-01)

(MUST HAVEs, but not for initial minimal demo due w/e 2018-08-07)

- MUST HAVE: session save logic (0.5d)

    Save current state of composition, and session setup (e.g. number of channels, instruments selected, etc.)

    Plan is that SOFA is configured with session-save container, but session data is not for shared use with other apps so may be non-RDF.

- MUST HAVE: gather instrument list from instrument pitch range match service (0./5d)

- MUST HAVE: UI for instrument selection on each channel (2d) (this was a previously unscheduled requirement)

(NOTE: this assumes that instrument selection is hard-wired as a per-channel option in SOFA - future developments could add metadata to match services for auto-discovery.)

John: I didn't think to mention it in the meeting, but this issue has a bearing on some aspects of our discussion (though not for immediate consideration): https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/issues/2

### Period to 17 Aug (added 2018-08-14)

(See also: original schedule to 2018-07-31 and 2018-08-07)

- MUST HAVE: Complete audio generation for assembled work (1.5d)
    - Multi-voice MIDI stream assembly for playback

- MUST HAVE: Finish setup scripts and notes for demo system (1d)

- MUST HAVE: Dockerized Numbers-into-Notes setup in GitHub (see action 20180801.1).


### Period to 11 Sep (?) (updated 2018-08-17)

(JP away from 2018-08-21 to 2018-09-05; then GK away until 2018-09-30)

These activities are rescheduled from the period to 2018-08-14.

- MUST HAVE: complete MEI note extraction and MIDI playback

- MUST HAVE: session save logic

    Save current state of composition, and session setup (e.g. number of channels, instruments selected, etc.)

- MUST HAVE: gather instrument list from instrument pitch range match service

- MUST HAVE: UI for instrument selection on each channel (this was a previously unscheduled requirement)

Total effort remaining for all of the above is estimated at 1.5d

### Other tasks required for industry day

- Create visualization of SOFA application music flows (to be discussed - in FAST project meetings?)

ACTION: GK flag to Kevin that this has not been progressed; not sure what to do or where effort is coming from.

### Instruments and ensembles

Per FAST meeting 2018-07-24, idea is to allow instruments to be selected in remixer UI, and saved for subsequent (re)use.

- Need save functionality in SOFA (currently session setup does cut-and-paste)

- SOFA should be configured with session-save container to save session state

- Need to build list of available instruments for matching: scan instrument pitch-range-match service to get list of target instruments

- Need to be able to choose instruments (new UI needed)

(See also activity scheduled for w/e 2018-08-14; rescheduled to 2018-09-11)

### Items not yet scheduled

SHOULD HAVE

- Propose design for export triggers to initiate creation of annotations - 0.5d

- NiN export triggers - SHOULD HAVE (would be good for demo) - 2d (contingent on design)

- MEI document generation from assembled fragments - 4d

- Extend Annalist musical instrument catalogue to contain ensemble descriptions - 1d (GK)

- Create some ensemble data - 1d

- Create agent to read ensemble descriptions and generate LDP container - 1d

- Session setup UI to allow ensemble selection (as alternative to individual instrument selection), including loading ensemble data.  NOTE: not adding/editing existing ensemble.  1d.


NICE TO HAVE / NOT REQUIRED for demo

- Multiple/additional working set import - 

- Authenticated access to LDP - 


POST-IMPLEMENTATION IMPROVEMENTS

- Interface tweaking/iteration


## Handoff notes

NOTE: JP will skip the note-mapping logic and use his remaining time on Monday to integrate the MIDI-playing library and access (currently in separate test code) into the SOFA React application, onthe assumption of a (Cmaj?) key signature that can use the MEI notes without mapping.  Someone else should then be able to implement the actual note mapping.

JP will also ensure that all working code, including his modified NiN code and test code samples, are accessible from GitHub, and that the NiN setup notes are updated to reference the resulting locations.

### React top-level framework

index.js:

    import App from './App'
     :
    ReactDOM.render(
          <Provider store={store}>
             <App />
          </Provider>,
          document.getElementById('root'))

invokes App.js:

    import { LoadButton } from './components/load-fragments';
     :
            {this.props.hideGo ? null : <LoadButton label="go" />}

invokes components/load-fragments.js:

    export let LoadButton = function({dispatch, label}) {
      return (
          // An event handler
          //  => which dispatches
          //  => a function (intercepted by redux-thunk)
          <button onClick={ e=> {dispatch(fragmentsPromise)} } >
          {label}
          </button>
         )
    }
    LoadButton=connect()(LoadButton)

which on button click activates the promise, which loads the MEI text and eventually calls (about line 53):

             :
            dispatch(setMei(f.mei, res.data, svg))
            extractNotesMEI(res.data)
             :

### MEI note extraction

This has proven to be tricky, as MEI encodes notes according to their score line position, which in turn needs to be modified for playback based on the key signature selected.

Examples of the MEI can be found by:

1. Access https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/scripts/saam-create-workset.sh

2. access a referenced fragment in NiN

    - e.g. http://beta.numbersintonotes.net/meld/ea115105-3bad-405c-b19f-14b3baa46fa0

3. access the MEI referenced my `mo:published_as` in the Turtle data

    - e.g. http://beta.numbersintonotes.net/mei/ea115105-3bad-405c-b19f-14b3baa46fa0.mei

In the XML, note:

    <scoreDef midi.bpm="150" meter.count="4" meter.unit="4" key.sig="4s" key.mode="major">

In particular, the `key.sig` and `key.mode` values.  For clues about interpretation, see mapping tables defined in NiN about https://github.com/davidderoure/NumbersIntoNotes/blob/master/NumbersIntoNotesBeta.js#L2400, and the function `outputMei about `https://github.com/davidderoure/NumbersIntoNotes/blob/master/NumbersIntoNotesBeta.js#L2245

Also in the XML. notes are defined in per-measure `<notes>` elements as (e.g.):

    <note pname="g" oct="1" xml:id="n25" dur="4"/>

and

    <rest dur="4" xml:id="n28"/>

The `pname`, `oct` and `dur` values are accessed by the SOFA remixer at about https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/src/audioHandling.js.  This function needs to return a list of note values for playback, suitably mapped.   This is where the key-signature mapping should be applied.

Note that notes may also have an `accid` attribute that overrides the key-signature modification of the note.  See table `accid` about https://github.com/davidderoure/NumbersIntoNotes/blob/master/NumbersIntoNotesBeta.js#L2400.


### MIDI-based playback

This currently exists only as non-integrated test code, but the plan is for JP to integrate this, with the required MIDI libraries, by 2018-08-20.  My expectation is that the playback logic will be connected about https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/src/components/load-fragments.js#L54.


### Deployment

Currently SOFA depends on reading test data and MEI from http://beta.numbersintonotes.net/ (See "MEI note extraction" above.)

For local operation, we would want:

1. to serve the fragment descriptions from a local LDP container (e.g. a local dockerized instance of NiN - see https://github.com/oerc-music/sofa-docker, which at the time of writing needs updating to reference the correct code branch).

2. to serve MEI fragment data from a local service (again, probably using a local NiN deployment)

3. the fragment MEI locations in the fragment descriptions (hence URLs) would need to change (or use local "hosts" file?)  We may also need scripts to copy and adjust the fragment descriptions from `beta.numbersintonotes.net`, and to copy the MEI files.

4. the script https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/scripts/saam-create-workset.sh creates a workset description for SOFA - this may need tweaking to reference a locally-deployed NiN instance.












