# Meeting 13 November 2018

This document: [2018-11-13](./2018-11-13-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP

## Agenda

Goals of meeting:

    1. Refine SOFA status information from last week's meeting
    2. Plan near-term activities

Non-goal for this meeting: future planning

    - Review agenda; review Kevin's email
    - Next meeting
        - 2018-11-20 10:00
        - next meeting with Kevin will be 2018-11-27
    - Review actions; note any issues or blockers
    - Review list of project goals, update estimates and prioritize "quick wins"
    - Any updates to retrospective/lessons?
    - DMRN poster status
    - FAST showcase re-run?

From Kevin's email:

> My only observation is in the "Left over from SAAM / Industry Day" task 
list, recognising that it isn't currently ordered: the tasks later in 
the list (inc. the quantified ones) seem more readily addressable than 
the earlier tasks, several of which need additional specifying (no 
problem with that in itself).

> I'd suggest these later, specific, tasks as candidates for this months 
work (i.e. before we meet in 3 weeks time). It would be really good to 
finish some of these off so there's a "complete" baseline implementation 
before moving on to interesting extensions or follow-ons. I'd hope it's 
now possible to steadily pick them off one-at-a-time.

## Resolutions

## Actions

Previous meeting: [2018-11-06](./2018-11-06-meeting.md)

### Previous actions carried forward

--

### Actions from last meeting

- [x] 20181106-1 JP articulate dependencies and initial estimate effort for MEI output from SOFA
    - Done (see tasks below)

- [ ] 20181106-2 GK investigate Solid pods and/or components as alternative backend.
    - (no progress)

- [ ] 20181106-3 JP update package dependencies noted as security vulnerabilities by GitHub
    - Ongoing - see below

- [x] 20181106-4 JP estimate for updates to filter selection to indicate in-use filters that are not (de)selectable.
    - Done (see tasks below)

- [x] 20181106-5 JP push stable/demo release tags to GitHub
    - Done.

- [x] 20181107-6 JP send email to solicit ideas for DMRN submission?
    - (We since chatted with Kevin)
    - Done.

### New actions

- [x] 20181113-1 GK: check GitHub, see if security problems can be identifed
    - Added JPNP as repo admin to see alerts

- [ ] 20181113-2 JP: prep text for DMRN poster draft - circulate for feedback tomorrow

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-11-27 10:00

(Next meeting with Kevin and others will be 2018-11-27)

Draft agenda next meeting:

- Set date for next meeting
- Review agenda
- Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- Review progress on tasks


## Review of SOFA progress w.r.t. previously articulated tasks

### Completed

- Fragment selection and addition to a score from options offered by constraint filters.

- Multi-voice audio generation.  This is now working by virtue of dropping midi.js and using the soundfont player library directly.

- Note generation that reflects key signature.  This is now working by using MIDI note numbers supplied by NiN, passed in MEI @pnum attributes.

- Deployment images and scripts for SOFA and Numnbers into Notes demo systems.  Implemented based on Docker images

- Gather instrument list from pitch-range matching service.  Also filters instruments presented based on note ranges of available fragments.

- Basic UI for selecting fragments and addiung them to the score under construction (may need to be updated).

- Basic UI for selecting constraiunts to be used tio filter fragments available for selection at any particular cell (will probably be updated - see future considerations).

- Annotation agent for pitch-range compatibility with specified instrument.

- LDP recursive scanning, allowing constraiunts to be groupoed by sub-categories.

- Stable or landmark state software releases in GitHub, tagged.

### Actively considered for development

(Section title was: Left over from SAAM / Industry day activities)

*NOTE: The ordering proposed here is based not only on perceived importance of the tasks, but also to tidy up loose ends before opening newer cans of worms*

- [ ] GitHub reported security vulnerabilities in library dependencies (see https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/notifications)

    - Briefly investigated, but GitHub isn't saying where the problem is...
    - Concerned about cascading NPM dependencies
    - Then: to be discussed
    - NOTE: this is not top priority;  may try a brief exploration, but don't plan to spend time on this in the near term

    ACTION GK: check GitHub, see if security problems can be identifed

    Timebox effort to 0.5 day max

- [ ] Session setup UI, including location of working set and assignment of instruments to each channel. Channel count currently fixed at 3, should be selectable.

    2 days to design and implement channel addition and removal.

    About half done; est 1d to complete

- [ ] Generate MEI document for assembled score

    Needs more investigation to estimate (MEI is complicated; issues like key signature selection arise.)

    Propose use the `pnum`s from MEI; use NiN key-signature selection and MEI generatrion logic

    Multi-track will need extra work; steps to result

        1. produce MEI from single track (with key sig selection loigic from NiN) - 2d
        2. produce MEI for multi-tracks for given arbitrarily chosen key sig (proves MEI multi-track generation) - effort TBD
        3. make appropriate key signature choice for use across all tracks - effort TBD

    (DDeR has confirmed that the same key signature should be used across all channels.)

- [ ] Present available and active compatibility filters, with selection option for those that are selectable

    - Implementation started before industry day; 1 day to complete

- [ ] Insert (and remove?) column in score

    1 day for simple case

    May need subsequent investigation and design outline if simple case isn't adequate.

- [ ] When changing selected instrument for channel, highlight fragments that are incompatible with the new instrument.

    1 day

- [ ] Session save and reload, including UI

    2 days

- [ ] Authenticated access to LDP, and access control for working sets and sessions

    (See action 20181106-2)

- [ ] Design and implementation of NiN output to Working Sets, and triggers for annotation agents to evaluate new fragments as they are added.

    Needs design outline before we can estimate.  DDeR may have some input to this.

    Has dependency on directions adopted for use of LDP containers (e.g. see authentication above)

- [ ] Multiple working sets input, and corresponding updates to the SOFA presentation of fragments.

    Needs some thinking about UX aspects: how should this appear to users?


### Future considerations

(Not estimated - generally these need more investigation and design work before it makes sense to estimate implementation effort.)

- Review and tweak interface (Needs wider feedback; open-ended?)

- DDeR ideas for deploying SOFA as a public service, with logging so that we can gather information about how people use it.

- Annotation agents adding information derived from audio processing - assumes we have source audio to be analyzed.

- Continuous monitoring of working set contents so that annotation agents can analyze new fragments as they are added.  See also "NiN output to Working Sets".  This masy require careful engineering to scale up appropriately - see "scaling up".

- Instrument setup based on predefined ensembles?  (This was dropped from earlier plans.)

- Scaling up: refine LDP usage to deal with larger collections of fragments.

- Make LDP access elements part of the MELD libraries.


## Brief retrospective and lessons arising

- LDP works well in principle, but possible issues with performance.  No querying.  This all has implications for the SOFA implementation architecture.

- LDP scanning performance isn't great - need to re-engineer to scale up acceptably.  So far, we haven't considered scaling issues in our implementation architecture.

- Currently GOLD in debug mode and no authentication or access control

- GOLD is looking a bit like abandonware.  The Node-based LDP library looks more actively maintained.

- MEI handling is harder than it looks.  Music is messy.

- Midi.js was not really suitable for our purposes.  The underlying soundfont player library seems to be a better fit, and is what SOFA currently uses.

- Key signature selection may prove to be tricky in the details (base principle is to minimize accidentals).


## DMRN poster status

In previous discussion with Kevin, we agreed to propose a poster.

Initrial proposed title: "Digital Music Objects: supporting the SOFA"

Have circulated a skeleton poster for review.  Needs feedback, 4-5 paras of text.  Refer to SAAM paper (which needs to be in ORA).

ACTION: JP - prep text for DMRN poster draft - circulate for feedback tomorrow


## FAST showcase re-run?

There has been some mentiuon of a possible re-run of the FAST showcase at Gibson Guitars near Oxford Street.  At this stage, we don't know if or when this might happen, and what we would be trying to do for it.  Does anyone know?

