# Meeting 20 Feb 2018

Present: GK, JP

No prior agenda; discussed progress since last meeting.

- [x] GK - agenda and notes to github repo
- [x] GK - README for repo with links to other docs
- [x] JP/GK - copy of whiteboard photos to GitHub repo (as placeholders)
- [-] JP - "architecture" diagrams from whiteboard sketches (e.g., for presentation)
    - [x] First one "overall architrecture" is done and uploaded
    - [ ] Second one (remixer design ideas) - not sure if this is yet appropriate to expend efforyt
- [-] JP/All - propose possible match "architecture" elements to MELD and related web/LD ideas
    - [x] GK email has thoughts
    - [-] JP is working on a document
- [x] JP - presentation for FAST meeting (10-15 minutes?)

Next meeting: 28-Feb-2018, 10:00

## Discussion of design

We seem to be happy with the broad ideas centred around use of LDP containers, possible with SoLiD features to follow.

Specific requirements to consider:

- multiple users sharing (not necessarily concurrently) - our sense is that LDP containers can provide context for this.  Initial use of URIs to sepaeate user concerns (ala "capabilitities"?).  Later may want to consider SoLiD access control.
- interaction: not so clear as performance use-cases for MELD, but the remixing session/history might work as a MELD session.

JP question: for fragment matching information: is an LDP container the right approach?

Possible query interface to mnatching container?  The problem looks like a dataset quertying.

GK broad assumption that a fragment match is represented as a web annotation.  Possible target = source

JP: what are advantages of using web annotations for compatibility match descriptions?

GK: good question.  I offer:

- common model across application areas makes it easier to work with (e.g., for developers)
- re-use existing design thinking and vocabularies
- re-use of code (e.g. for collections of compatibility statements)
- possible undepinning of/feeding into DMO ideas
- testing the hypothesis of WA/MELD pattern suitability as part of our research

Also no alternative yet considered(!), but note that RDF of itself embodies much of the linking capabilities we're trying to represent.

## ACTION: 

- [ ] JP think about RDF structures, come up with proposals
- [ ] JP think about how to access fragmnent compatibility, come up with proposal
    - e.g.
    - single LPD container of matches
    - multiple containers of matches for different compatibility models
    - match query interface

Next meeting: 28-Feb-2018, 10:00