# Meeting 1 August 2018

This document: [2018-08-14](./2018-08-14-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP

## Agenda

- [ ] Set date for next meeting
    -- 2018-08-?? ??:??
- [ ] Review agenda
- [ ] Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] Review development progress and blockers
- [ ] Review and revise timeline
- [ ] Next steps
- [ ] ???

## Resolutions

## Actions

Software progress actions are being dropped in favour of just reviewing progress against plan; other actions mostly not priorities

### Previous actions carried forward

- [ ] 20180322.4  JP: Add notes about proposal for NiN export triggers to GitHub
    - SHOULD HAVE (would be good for demo)
- [ ] 20180322.8  JP: Multiple/additional working set import and basic display
      - No activity, ongoing, not a vast amount of work to complete, but not urgent
      - NICE TO HAVE for demo
- [ ] 20180328.7  JP MEI document generation from internal score
      - SHOULD HAVE for demo (but maybe not very visible in demo)
      - NOTE: now assembling multi-part MEI score - affects effort required
      - NOTE: may be affected by decision on action 20180328.8
- [ ] 20180328.8  JP Audio generation from assembled MEI score
      - DEFER consideration: may be superseded by alternative playback option
      - (also note playback is now multi-channel)
- [ ] 20180413.3  JP authenticated access to LDP
    - NOT REQUIRED for demo; but should be addressed before allowing external access to Sofa.  Will probably be provided via HTTP server proxy.

### Actions from last meeting

- [ ] 20180801.1 JP Push dockerized Numbers-into-Notes setup to GitHub
    - ensure no credentials, etc, in local git repo.
    - suggest new repo under Oerc-music
- [ ] 20180801.2 JP copy existing SOFA setup and config notes to Github repo
    - don't worry about what state they are in; anything better than nothing
    - suggest subdirectory of 'notes' directory
- [ ] 20180801.3 JP add documentation/config/setup links to README for SOFA
- [x] 20180101.4 GK Prime Mat about possible kit ready for install

### New actions

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-08-?? ??:??

Draft agenda next meeting:

- [ ] Set date for next meeting
- [ ] Review agenda
- [ ] Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] Review development progress and blockers
- [ ] ???
- [ ] Review and revise timeline


## Current development plan and status

[[
Lost a couple more days due to unforeseen complications.  Currently about a week behind original plan, but still aiming for a minimal demoable product by 7 August.  
]]

[[
We also identified an additional (previously unplanned) week of effort will be required for the per-channel instrument setup and session saving, currently targeting 14 August.  This is being treated as not required for an initial demoable system, but still required for the indsutry day demo.
]]

### Last week activities (to 2018-08-01)

1. Finish re-work of filtering logic in UI (see item 2 above) (1d)

2. Get audio generation working (2d)

3. Sort out setup scripts and notes for demo system (1d)

### Next week activities

????

## Plan timeline and progress

### Week to 26 June:

(expect little progress due to summer school prep)

### 2 weeks to 10 July (includes week of summer school)

- MUST HAVE: User interface completion for SAAM paper: includes handling multiple channels/parts/voices, and tying in the row and column constraint filters for fragment selection - 2d
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: Recursive scanning of LDP containers - add container indirection logic to annotation scanning/filtering code.  1d.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

### Week to 17 July

- MUST HAVE: Instrument compatibility agent (annotation service) for instrumentation - 2d.
    - needs to scan working set fragments
    - needs to interact with Annalist data
    - needs to set up containers
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: UI elements to set up constraints (e.g. instrument/channel assignments, match criteria selection based on available match services) - 3d for initial functionally complete implementation.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

### Week to 24 July

- MUST HAVE: Handle session setup - configuring a session; session-wide constraint selection.  Driven from config data - UI is separate.  1d.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: Audio generation for assembled fragments; ability to play the composed work in its current state - 2+2d (variable due to unknowns)
    - (Need to decide via MIDI or via MEI - via MIDI will require MIDI handling library; via MEI looks more complicated; and would also need to select samples used, etc.  Assuming for now to use MIDI.)
    - 2018-07-24: **1d used, 3d to go**

### week to 31 July

- MUST HAVE: Create software release (ask Mat to install and test it) - 1+1d

- MUST HAVE: Tagged, retrievable stable software release in GitHub.

### week to 7 Aug

- MUST HAVE: Initial set up data for demonstration.  Saved NiN output data so demo can be run without NiN or separete server active.  Additional data will be added as development work proceeds - 1d (initial setup).
    - 2018-07-24: **to start (brought forward to 2018-07-25?)**

Completion of MUST HAVE elements; SHOULD HAVE to review and plan in due course)

### week to 14 Aug (added 2018-08-01)

(MUST HAVEs, but not for initial minimal demo due w/e 2018-08-07)

- MUST HAVE: session save logic (0.5d)

    Save current state of composition, and session setup (e.g. number of channels, instruments selected, etc.)

    Plan is that SOFA is configured with session-save container, but session data is not for shared use with other apps so may be non-RDF.

- MUST HAVE: gather instrument list from instrument pitch range match service (0./5d)

- MUST HAVE: UI for instrument selection on each channel (2d) (this was a previously unscheduled requirement)

(NOTE: this assumes that instrument selection is hard-wired as a per-channel option in SOFA - future developments could add metadata to match services for auto-discovery.)

John: I didn't think to mention it in the meeting, but this issue has a bearing on some aspects of our discussion (though not for immediate consideration): https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/issues/2

### Other tasks required for industry day

- Create visualization of SOFA application music flows (to be discussed - in FAST project meetings?)

### Instruments and ensembles

Per FAST meeting 2018-07-24, idea is to allow instruments to be selected in remixer UI, and saved for subsequent (re)use.

- Need save functionality in SOFA (currently session setup does cut-and-paste)

- SOFA should be configured with session-save container to save session state

- Need to build list of available instruments for matching: scan instrument pitch-range-match service to get list of target instruments

- Need to be able to choose instruments (new UI needed)

(See also activity scheduled for w/e 2018-08-14)

### Items not yet scheduled

SHOULD HAVE

- Propose design for export triggers to initiate creation of annotations - 0.5d

- NiN export triggers - SHOULD HAVE (would be good for demo) - 2d (contingent on design)

- MEI document generation from assembled fragments - 4d

- Extend Annalist musical instrument catalogue to contain ensemble descriptions - 1d (GK)

- Create some ensemble data - 1d

- Create agent to read ensemble descriptions and generate LDP container - 1d

- Session setup UI to allow ensemble selection (as alternative to individual instrument selection), including loading ensemble data.  NOTE: not adding/editing existing ensemble.  1d.


NICE TO HAVE / NOT REQUIRED for demo

- Multiple/additional working set import - 

- Authenticated access to LDP - 


POST-IMPLEMENTATION IMPROVEMENTS

- Interface tweaking/iteration

