# Meeting 22 Mar 2018

This document: [2018-03-22](2018-03-22-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP
 
## Agenda

- [x] set date for next meeting
- [x] review agenda
- [x] review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [x] Title, presenters, tech requirements for 26 April demo day presentation (see below)
- [x] Discuss issues arising from FAST project meeting
- [x] Working set design; any known outstanding concerns?
- [x] review progress with DDeR on NiN and remixer interface
    - DDeR has it running at http://beta.numbersintonotes.net
    - Note: `dig` gives `beta.numbersintonotes.net. 3600 IN  CNAME   thalassa.oerc.ox.ac.uk.`
    - Basically in hand; we will create a new forked repo of NiN in oerc-music and use that for deployment and future changes of the beta system
    ACTION: JP: put notes about proposal for changes to NiN  in GitHub notes
- [x] LDP container option updates
    - See: [Summary of responses to quastion about LDP servers](../20180321-LDP-server-notes.md)
- [x] Core UI for NiN remixer
- [x] review and revise timeline; check implications of leave around Easter


### Resolutions

### Previous actions carried forward

(None)

### New actions

- [ ] 20180322.1   GK: Meeting notes edited and posted to GitHub
- [ ] 20180322.2   JP: Put notes about proposal for changes to NiN in GitHub notes
- [ ] 20180322.3   GK: Review JP responses in GK-working-set-review-notes.md
- [ ] 20180322.4   JP: Add notes about proposal for NiN export triggers to GitHub
- [ ] 20180322.5   GK: Create GitHub page for ideas for future directions of NiN-remixer
- [ ] 20180322.6   GK: Solicit and record ideas for the future directions page
- [ ] 20180322.7   JP: Complete single working set load and basic display
- [ ] 20180322.8   JP: Multiple/additional working set import and basic display
- [ ] 20180322.9   JP: Fragment compatibility service interface design
- [ ] 20180322.10  JP: Initial fragment compatibility service implementation


### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-03-28 10:00

Draft agenda next meeting:

@@TBD@@

- [ ] set date for next meeting
- [ ] review agenda
- [ ] review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] Fragment compatibility service design review
- [ ] ???
- [ ] ???
- [ ] ???
- [ ] review and revise timeline


## Review actions

Previous meeting: [2018-03-16](meetings/2018-03-16-meeting.md)

### Older actions

- [x] 20180306.5 JP: Transfer data from NiN into working set in LDP container
    - Have data coming from beta.?? into LDP via script
- [x] 20180306.8 JP: Get NiN running from virtual machine (thalassa)

### Actions from last meeting

- [x] 20180316.1 GK: update meeting notes (today; later)
- [x] 20180316.2 GK: post question about LDP container recommendations to SWIG list
- [x] 20180316.3 JP: push working set minimum requirements scripts+data to github (by today)
    - Data loading in spike/create-working-set
    - Example data in:
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/notes/Example-WorkingSet-Fragments.ttl
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/notes/Example-WorkingSet-LinkedFragments.ttl
- [x] 20180316.4 GK: review working set minimum requirements and feedback (by Thursday 22, sooner if possible)
    - See GK-working-set-review-notes.md, includes JP responses
    - ACTION GK review JP responses
- [x] 20180316.5 JP: push working set creation scripts to github (by today)
- [x] 20180316.6 JP: chase NiN deployment progress with DDeR
- [x] 20180316.7 JP: chase progress of NiN fragment storage options with DDeR
- [x] 20180316.8 JP: initiate discussion of NiN export triggers with DDeR
    - Dave has passsed baton to us on this
    - JP has ideas for proposal
    - ACTION JP - put notes about proposal in GitHub notes
- [x] 20180316.9 JP: put some NiN test data on thassala to enable progress while waiting for NiN deployment
    - superseded: we now have real data


## Details for 26 April demo day presentation

From Jasmina:

> Can you please get back to me asap (latest by the 26 March) with the titles of your contributions, the names of the presenters and your technical requirements for the FAST show and tell session at the QM Ideas Unwrapped event on 26 April?

> We met at our QM group meeting on Tuesday and we have drafted a list of contributions from Queen Mary. Currently there are 8 contributions from QM, subject to availability of the presenters.

1. Title; e.g.

    Numbers into Notes Remixer; semantic matching and (re)combination of musical fragments

2. Presenter: John Pybus

3. Technical requirements:
    - Wired(?) Internet access sufficient to access software and data from installation in OeRC. 
    - Large(ish) display screen; HDMI input
    - Will bring own laptop
    - Audio speakers?

4. (Think about abstract/elevator pitch?)


## Discuss issues arising from FAST project meeting

### General feedback from meeting

KP(?) has expectation that parts of the remixer work will fold back into main MELD work; e.g. capabilities and features that we develop for NiN remixer which could be incorporated as features in the MELD reference implementations.

There is a possibility that NiN remixer fragment match annotations could be run on MELD infrastructure.  We should be able to remix and recombine ideas from all MELD-related work strands.  E.g., how do we deal with session users and fragments (possibly via a link from a fragment to agents in MELD sessions)? Such a connection between musical fragments and session users might be something that is usefully accommodated by a generiuc MELD pattern.


### SAAM paper

Thinking beyond the April demo about a submission to the music/semantics/workshop at SWeb conference (SAAM, Monterey). Submission deadline in mid-May.  Possible paper with Kevin/David using what we've built as a base for a demo/talk that explores the related technology options (e.g. fragment matching) for a SWeb audience.

Aiming to build on the demo system (as planned to be ready by 17 April), with additional work to underpin a paper aimed at a semantic web audience.

Notes from a subsequent discussion with Kevin:

> Ready by 17 Apr to start on work towards a paper.  This increases pressure to get a basic demo platform ready by the week before.  The discussion of what we might do for the paper will depend on what we've implemented by the week of 16th April.  If insufficient platform implementation for this discussion, The next opportunity for such discussion would be week of 30 April, rather too close to the submission deadline.

Thus, we ideally have a demo-able system ready a week before QM demo, and have discussion in that week.

ACTION: GK create GitHub page for ideas for future directions of NiN-remixer

ACTION: GK solicit and record idies for the future directions page

## Working set design; any known outstanding concerns?

JP: no blockers here.

Design is ongoing/evolving. Further discussion is deferred to the GitHub page and/or subsequent meetings.


## Core UI for NiN remixer

- single working set import/load and basic display
- multiple working set import and basic display

Work in progress; no blockers.  Currently working on "single working set" case; nearly done, but not yet complete.  Next step is multiple working sets.

### Questions:

Design question: how to load additional working sets into live session?  E.g. update active working set, or create new working working set that combines existing sets.

JP: good to always have an active working set, or something that stands for such.

Our discussion then centred around the idea of an NiN-remixer user either (a) connecting to an existing working set, or (b) create a new working set.  From there on, data can be loaded/connected from other working sets, but always updating the "active" working set.

Separately, we discussed a question about working set incorporation by value or by reference?  Do we want to incorporate a snapshot or a live view of an imported working set? (what happens when an imported working set is updated?)

Assumptions:

- Fragments are immutable, have identity.  If updated, create a new fragment with new identity.
- For now, punting on issue of whether working sets are versioned in any way.  Assume for now that we always see the "current state".
- Fragments themselves are included by reference. (previous resolution)

Proposal for now is:
(a) when user activates NiN remixer, they either connect to an existing working set (session?) or reate a new one.  This establishes an "active" or "current" working set.
(b) imported working sets are incorporated "by value" into the active working set; i.e. copy fragment references from imported working set
(c) if reasonable, try to isolate working set access so that changes in this decision are relatively easily accommodated.


## Review other activities

Nothing at this time.


## Tech issues needing investigation

Nothing at this time.


## Next steps and timeline

NOTE: industry day demo trial run is 2018-04-26


### Next week timeline

- Day 1

    Core UI for remixer
    - finish off single working set import/load and basic display
    - multiple working set import and basic display

- Day 2 onwards

    Simple fragment compatibility service (focus on service interface)
    - design proposal
    - service implementation (completion may be following next meeting)


### Overall rough timeline

- Week 3: (starting Fri 2018-03-23)

    Core UI for remixer
    - finish off single working set load and basic display
    - multiple working set import and basic display
    Simple fragment compatibility service (focus on service interface)
    - design proposal
    - service implementation (possibly copleted following meeting)

- Week 4: (starting Mon 2018-04-09)

    Core UI for remixer
    - fragment assembly / score generation
    Audio generation from current "score"
    MEI document generation ("score")
    Core UI for remixer
    - audio playback

- Week 5: (starting Mon 2018-04-16)

    DMO Export logic
    Core UI for remixer
    - DMO export
    Integration, testing and improvement
    Minimum viable product (MVP) demoable

- Week 6: (starting 2018-04-23)

    Minimum viable product (MVP) reviewed and tweaked

NOTE: industry day demo trial run is 2018-04-26





----

# Non-meeting-notes

The following notes are included here as a record of what we actually discussed in the meeting, as opposed to a revised version that appears above.

### SAAM paper

Thinking about beyond the April demo to the music/semantics/workshop at SWeb conference (SAAM, Monterey) - submission deadline mid-May.  Possible paper with Kevin/David  using what we've built as a base for a demo/talk that explores the related technology options (e.g. fragment matching)for a SWeb audience.

Aiming to be ready by 17 April to start sketching paper outline (FAST project meeting).

(KP?) has expectation that parts of what comes out of this will fold back into main MELD work; e.g. look for capabilities that we develop for NiN remixer which could be incorporated into MELD reference implementations.

Possibility that NiN remixer fragment match annotations coulkd be run on MELD infrastructure.  Should be able to remix and recombine ideas from both/all strands.  (E.g.?) How do we deal with session users and fragments (e.g. link to agents in MELD sessions).

Want to have discussion before Easter; hence DW joining us at next meeting

NOT-ACTION: JP provide DW, and circulate GK/KP/DDeR with pointers to tech work to date (e.g. annotated list of links)

NOT-ACTION: GK create wiki page for ideas for future directions of NiN-remixer

NOT-ACTION: GK/JP add JP circulated notes as background to future ideas page

NOT-ACTION: ALL make notes of any ideas in new wiki page



