# Meeting 20 November 2018

This document: [2018-11-20](./2018-11-20-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP

## Agenda

Goals of meeting:

    Review last week activity; update notes and plans

Non-goal for this meeting: future planning

- Set date for next meeting
    - 2018-11-27 10:00
- Review agenda
- Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- Review progress on tasks
- DMRN poster status
- FAST showcase re-run?

## Resolutions

## Actions

Previous meeting: [2018-11-13](./2018-11-13-meeting.md)

### Previous actions carried forward

- [x] 20181106-2 GK investigate Solid pods and/or components as alternative backend.
    - Notes below; authentication remains a challenge

- [x] 20181106-3 JP update package dependencies noted as security vulnerabilities by GitHub
    - Packages updated; still works; alerts still present - waiting for GitHub to update

--

### Actions from last meeting

- [x] 20181113-1 GK: check GitHub, see if security problems can be identifed
    - Added JPNP as repo admin to see alerts

- [x] 20181113-2 JP: prep text for DMRN poster draft - circulate for feedback tomorrow
    - Done and submitted

### New actions

- [ ] 20181120-1 JP: to progress MEI generation (not necessarily complete)
- [ ] 20181120-2 JP: to progress grid interface updates (not necessarily complete)
- [x] 20181120-3 GK: confirm and reference Solid OIDC Javascript helper support
    - See [notes/Solid-investigation-notes.md](../Solid-investigation-notes.md#user-content-browser-client-authentication-and-pod-access-support)
- [ ] 20181120-4 GK: investigate LDP interactions as potential MELD additions

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-11-27 10:00

Draft agenda next meeting:

- Set date for next meeting
- Review agenda
- Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- Review progress on tasks

## Review of SOFA progress w.r.t. previously articulated tasks

### Completed

- Fragment selection and addition to a score from options offered by constraint filters.

- Multi-voice audio generation.  This is now working by virtue of dropping midi.js and using the soundfont player library directly.

- Note generation that reflects key signature.  This is now working by using MIDI note numbers supplied by NiN, passed in MEI @pnum attributes.

- Deployment images and scripts for SOFA and Numnbers into Notes demo systems.  Implemented based on Docker images

- Gather instrument list from pitch-range matching service.  Also filters instruments presented based on note ranges of available fragments.

- Basic UI for selecting fragments and addiung them to the score under construction (may need to be updated).

- Basic UI for selecting constraiunts to be used tio filter fragments available for selection at any particular cell (will probably be updated - see future considerations).

- Annotation agent for pitch-range compatibility with specified instrument.

- LDP recursive scanning, allowing constraiunts to be groupoed by sub-categories.

- Stable or landmark state software releases in GitHub, tagged.

- Session setup UI, including location of working set and assignment of instruments to each channel, and numnber of channels.

### Actively considered for development

(Section title was: Left over from SAAM / Industry day activities)

NOTE: The ordering proposed here is based not only on perceived importance of the tasks, but also to tidy up loose ends before opening newer cans of worms*

- [x] GitHub reported security vulnerabilities in library dependencies (see https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/notifications)

    Packages updated; still works; alerts still present - waiting for GitHub to update

- [ ] Generate MEI document for assembled score

    Propose use the `pnum`s from MEI; use NiN key-signature selection and MEI generatrion logic

    Multi-track will need extra work; steps to result

        1. produce MEI from single track (with key sig selection logic from NiN) - 2d
        2. produce MEI for multi-tracks for given arbitrarily chosen key sig (proves MEI multi-track generation) - effort TBD
        3. make appropriate key signature choice for use across all tracks - effort TBD

    (DDeR has confirmed that the same key signature should be used across all channels.)

    Step 1 is part-way through (1d to go)

    Steps 2 & 3 still to do: not sure what multi-track MEI should look like.  No estimate yet.  Hoping to have multi-channel MEI done in the next week.  Step 3 probably not.

    ACTION JP to progress MEI generation (not necessarily complete)

- [ ] Fragment grid intrerface updates, comprising

    - [ ] Present available and active compatibility filters, with selection option for those that are selectable

        - Implementation started before industry day; 1 day to complete

    - [ ] Insert (and remove?) column in score

        1 day for simple case

        May need subsequent investigation and design outline if simple case isn't adequate.

    - [ ] When changing selected instrument for channel, highlight fragments that are incompatible with the new instrument.

        1 day

    ACTION JP to progress grid interface updates (not necessarily complete)

- [ ] Session save and reload, including UI

    2 days

- [ ] Authenticated access to LDP, and access control for working sets and sessions

    (See action 20181106-2)

    The Solid Pod spftware (see notes below) supports OIDC and WebId.  I think there's a Jacvascript helper function provided.  The setup scripts may be problematic.

    ACTION: GK confirm and reference Javascript helper support

    This may be a non-trivial feature to implement, compared with (e.g.) putting a bare LDP server behind an Apache/nginx proxy authentication.

    GK has tried to match the deployment instructions for Solid 3rd party IDP with Google's IDP setup, and not seeing how to get Google to provide a WebId URL in the user profile.  Next steps would be to actually discuss how to proceed with the Solid/Inrupt team.

- [ ] Design and implementation of NiN output to Working Sets, and triggers for annotation agents to evaluate new fragments as they are added.

    Needs design outline before we can estimate.  DDeR may have some input to this.

    Has dependency on directions adopted for use of LDP containers (e.g. see authentication above)

- [ ] Multiple working sets input, and corresponding updates to the SOFA presentation of fragments.

    Needs some thinking about UI and workflow aspects: how should this appear to users?


### Future considerations

(Not estimated - generally these need more investigation and design work before it makes sense to estimate implementation effort.)

- Review and tweak interface (Needs wider feedback; open-ended?)

- DDeR ideas for deploying SOFA as a public service, with logging so that we can gather information about how people use it.

- Annotation agents adding information derived from audio processing - assumes we have source audio to be analyzed.

- Continuous monitoring of working set contents so that annotation agents can analyze new fragments as they are added.  See also "NiN output to Working Sets".  This may require careful engineering to scale up appropriately - see "scaling up".

- Instrument setup based on predefined ensembles?  (This was dropped from earlier plans.)

- Scaling up: refine LDP usage to deal with larger collections of fragments.

- Make LDP access elements part of the MELD libraries.

    ACTION GK investigate LDP interactions with a view to proposals for MELD components (and possible wrappers for performance optimizations)


## Brief retrospective and lessons arising

- LDP works well in principle, but possible issues with performance.  No querying.  This all has implications for the SOFA implementation architecture.

- LDP scanning performance isn't great - need to re-engineer to scale up acceptably.  So far, we haven't considered scaling issues in our implementation architecture.

- Currently GOLD in debug mode and no authentication or access control

- GOLD is looking a bit like abandonware.  The Node-based LDP library looks more actively maintained.

- MEI handling is harder than it looks.  Music is messy.

- Midi.js was not really suitable for our purposes.  The underlying soundfont player library seems to be a better fit, and is what SOFA currently uses.

- Key signature selection may prove to be tricky in the details (base principle is to minimize accidentals).


## DMRN poster status

Submitted poster: "Digital Music Objects: composing on the SOFA"


## FAST showcase re-run?

There has been some mention of a possible re-run of the FAST showcase at Gibson Guitars near Oxford Street.  It looks as if this may happen sometime in February.  Expect discussion in next week's FAST meeting.


# Solid investigation notes from last week

Moved to [notes/Solid-investigation-notes.md](../Solid-investigation-notes.md).


