# Meeting 6 November 2018

This document: [2018-11-06](./2018-11-06-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP

## Agenda

Goals of meeting:

1. review state of SOFA, collecting information for future planning
2. retrospective / review, particularly looking for lessons we should carry forward to the final stages

Non-goal for this meeting: future planning

- [ ] Review agenda; review Kevin's email
- [ ] Next meeting
    - 2018-11-13 10:00 for near-term planning
    - next meeting with Kevin will be 2018-11-27
- [ ] Draw up list of project goals (review past notes)
- [ ] Review state of SOFA w.r.t. goals (with estimates)
- [ ] Retrospective: identify strengths and problem areas going forwards
- [ ] DMRN?

## Resolutions

## Actions

(Previous actions have been transferred to the goals section, and dropped as actions, on the assumption that we are re-planning the next stages of this work.)

Previous meeting: [2018-09-07](./2018-09-07-meeting.md)

### Previous actions carried forward

--

### Actions from last meeting

--

### New actions

20181106-1 JP articulate dependencies and initial estimate effort for MEI output from SOFA

20181106-2 GK investigate Solid pods and/or components as altermative backend.

20181106-3 JP update package dependencies noted as security vulnerabilities by GitHub

20181106-4 JP estimate for updates to filter selection to indicate in-use filters that are not (de)dselectable.

20181106-5 JP push stable/demo release tags to GitHub

20181107-6 JP send email to solicit ideas for DMRN submission?
    - (We since chatted with Kevin)


### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-11-13 10:00 (for near-term planning)

(Next meeting with Kevin and others will be 2018-11-27)

Draft agenda next meeting:

- [ ] Set date for next meeting
- [ ] Review agenda
- [ ] Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] ...
- [ ] Next steps


## Review of SOFA status w.r.t. previously articulated goals

### Completed

- Fragment selection and addition to a score from options offered by constraint filters.

- Multi-voice audio generation.  This is now working by virtue of dropping midi.js and using the soundfont player library directly.

- Note generation that reflects key signature.  This is now working by using MIDI note numbers supplied by NiN, passed in MEI @pnum attributes.

- Deployment images and scripts for SOFA and Numnbers into Notes demo systems.  Implemented based on Docker images

- Gather instrument list from pitch-range matching service.  Also filters instruments presented based on note ranges of available fragments.

- Basic UI for selecting fragments and addiung them to the score under construction (may need to be updated).

- Basic UI for selecting constraiunts to be used tio filter fragments available for selection at any particular cell (will probably be updated - see future considerations).

- Annotation agent for pitch-range compatibility with specified instrument.

- LDP recursive scanning, allowing constraiunts to be groupoed by sub-categories.

### Left over from SAAM / Industry day activities

- Design and implementation of NiN output to Working Sets, and triggers for annotation agents to evaluate new fragments as they are added.

    Needs design outline before we can estimate.  DDeR may have some input to this.

- Multiple working sets input, and corresponding updates to the SOFA presentation of fragments.

    Needs some thinking about UX aspects: how should this appear to users?

- Generate MEI document for assembled score

    Needs more investigation to estimate (MEI is complicated; issues like key signature selection arise.)

- GitHub reported security vulnerabilities in library dependencies (see https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/notifications)

    0.5 day?

- Session save and reload, including UI

    2 days

- Session setup UI, including location of working set and assignment of instruments to each channel. Channel count currently fixed at 3, should be selectable.

    2 days to design and implement channel addition and removal.

- Stable or landmark state software releases in github, tagged.

    0.1 day?  Still need to push tags.

- Insert (and remove?) column in score

    1 day for simple case

    May need investigation design outline if simple case isn't adequate.

- When changing selected instrument for channel, highlighnt rragments that arer incompatible with the new instrument

- Review and tweak interface

    Open-ended?


### Future considerations

(Not estimated - generally these need more investigation and design work before it makes sense to estimate implementation effort.)

- Authenticated access to LDP, and access control for working sets and sessions

- DDeR ideas for deploying SOFA as a public service, with logging so that we can gather information about how people use it.

- Annotation agents adding information derived from audio processing - assumes we have source audio to be analyzed.

- Instrument setup based on predefined ensembles?  (This was dropped from earlier plans.)

- Present available and active compatibility filters, with selection option for those that are selectable. 

- Continuous monitoring of working set contents so that annotation agents can analyze new fragments as they are added.  See also "NiN output to Working Sets".  This masy require careful engineering to scale up appropriately - see "scaling up".

- Scaling up: refine LDP usage to deal with larger collections of fragments.

- Make LDP access elements part of the MELD libraries.


## Brief retrospective and lessons arising

- LDP works well in principle, but possible issues with performance.  No querying.  This all has implications for the SOFA implementation architecture.

- LDP scanning performance isn't great - need to re-engineer to scale up acceptably.  So far, we haven't considered scaling issues in our implementation architecture.

- Currently GOLD in debug mode and no authentication or access control

- GOLD is looking a bit like abandonware.  The Node-based LDP library looks more actively maintained.

- MEI handling is harder than it looks.  Music is messy.

- Midi.js was not really suitable for our purposes.  The underlying soundfont player library seems to be a better fit.


## DMRN

We discussed Kevin's email on this topic, but were unsure about how this should be positioned for the DMRN.  Resolved to seek input.

[Later] in discussion with Kevin, agreed to propose a poster, maybe something like "SOFA: Enabling Music Flows with Digital Music Objects"

