# Meeting 24 July 2018

This document: [2018-07-24](./2018-07-24-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP


## Agenda

- [ ] Set date for next meeting
    - 1 Aug 2018 10:00AM
- [ ] Review agenda
- [ ] Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] Review development progress and blockers
- [ ] Review approach for specifying instrument group (ensemble) per GK sketch 
    - discussion deferred
    - also note change of tack from FAST meeting: no separate ensemble definitions
- [ ] Review and revise timeline

## Resolutions

## Actions

Software progress actions are being dropped in favour of just reviewing progress anainst plan; other actions mostly not priorities


### Previous actions carried forward

- [ ] 20180322.4  JP: Add notes about proposal for NiN export triggers to GitHub
    - SHOULD HAVE (would be good for demo)
- [ ] 20180322.8  JP: Multiple/additional working set import and basic display
      - No activity, ongoing, not a vast amount of work to complete, but not urgent
      - NICE TO HAVE for demo
- [ ] 20180328.7  JP MEI document generation from internal score
      - SHOULD HAVE for demo (but maybe not very visible in demo)
      - NOTE: now assembling multi-part MEI score - affects effort required
      - NOTE: may be affected by decision on action 20180328.8
- [ ] 20180328.8  JP Audio generation from assembled MEI score
      - DEFER consideration: may be superseded by alternative playback option
      - (also note playback is now multi-channel)
- [ ] 20180413.3  JP authenticated access to LDP
    - NOT REQUIRED for demo; but should be addressed before allowing external access to Sofa.  Will probably be provided via HTTP server proxy.

### Actions from last meeting

- [x] 20180710.1 GK Draft proposal for "approach for specifying instrument group" (see agenda) for review at next meeting.
    - See: https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/issues/3

### New actions

- [ ] 20180724.1 JP Prepare screenshots for SOFA paper using completed application UI elements.

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2018-08-01 10:00

Draft agenda next meeting:

- [ ] Set date for next meeting
- [ ] Review agenda
- [ ] Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- [ ] Confirm status of code in GitHub
- [ ] Note location of docker container setup file[s]?
- [ ] where is server host name configured (for use in linked data)
- [ ][] confirm Gold handling of concurrent access and etags (IF-Match), etc.  This is to confirm that gold can be safely used where there may be multiple concurrent uopdates to a MELD container.
- [ ] Review development progress and blockers
- [ ] Plan/review approach for specifying instrument group/ensemble
    - Per FAST meeting 2018-07-24, idea is to allow instruments to be selected in remixer UI, and saved for subsequent (re)use.
- [ ] ???
- [ ] Review and revise timeline


## Current status

Roughly on track, but have screenshots to do for SOFA paper

review:
- two issues added to github repo.  Review deferred to next meeting.

Audio generation: hopefully will have greater clarity by next week's meeting (esp. w.r.t. driving midi audio from Javascript).  Could even be implemented, but not promising that.

### Next week activities (to 2018-08-01)

JP taking Friday off, so 1 less day of available effort (i.e., 3d this week)

Will bring forward data setup for demo - needed for screenshot; see new action 20180724.1.

Visual presentation of test data should be done by Wednesday 2018-07-25.

Audio generation will probably overrun to following week.  By next week, we should have a clearer idea of how much effort will actually be needed.

(2-3 days behind original plan - currently projecting minimum demoable system by week ending 7 August.)


## Plan timeline and progress

### Week to 26 June:

(expect little progress due to summer school prep)

### 2 weeks to 10 July (includes week of summer school)

- MUST HAVE: User interface completion for SAAM paper: includes handling multiple channels/parts/voices, and tying in the row and column constraint filters for fragment selection - 2d
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: Recursive scanning of LDP containers - add container indirection logic to annotation scanning/filtering code.  1d.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

### Week to 17 July

- MUST HAVE: Instrument compatibility agent (annotation service) for instrumentation - 2d.
    - needs to scan working set fragments
    - needs to interact with Annalist data
    - needs to set up containers
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: UI elements to set up constraints (e.g. instrument/channel assignments, match criteria selection based on available match services) - 3d for initial functionally complete implementation.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

### Week to 24 July

- MUST HAVE: Handle session setup - configuring a session; session-wide constraint selection.  Driven from config data - UI is separate.  1d.
    - 2018-07-24: **completed**

- MUST HAVE: Audio generation for assembled fragments; ability to play the composed work in its current state - 2+2d (variable due to unknowns)
    - (Need to decide via MIDI or via MEI - via MIDI will require MIDI handling library; via MEI looks more complicated; and would also need to select samples used, etc.  Assuming for now to use MIDI.)
    - 2018-07-24: **1d used, 3d to go**

### week to 31 July

- MUST HAVE: Create software release (ask Mat to install and test it) - 1+1d

- MUST HAVE: Taggedm, retrievable stable software release in GitHub.

### week to 7 Aug

- MUST HAVE: Initial set up data for demonstration.  Saved NiN output data so demo can be run without NiN or separete server active.  Additional data will be added as development work proceeds - 1d (initial setup).
    - 2018-07-24: **to start (brought forward to 2018-07-25?)**

Completion of MUST HAVE elements; SHOULD HAVE to review and plan in due course)

### Other tasks required for industry day

- Create visualization of SOFA application music flows (to be discussed - in FAST project meetings?)

### Items not yet scheduled

SHOULD HAVE

- Propose design for export triggers to initiate creation of annotations - 0.5d

- NiN export triggers - SHOULD HAVE (would be good for demo) - 2d (contingent on design)

- MEI document generation from assembled fragments - 4d

- Session setup UI to allow individual instrument/channel selection - 2d

- Extend Annalist musical instrument catalogue to contain ensemble descriptions - 1d (GK)

- Create some ensemble data - 1d

- Create agent to read ensemble descriptions and generate LDP container - 1d

- Session setup UI to allow ensemble selection (as alternative to individual instrument selection), including loading ensemble data.  NOTE: not adding/editing existing ensemble.  1d.


NICE TO HAVE / NOT REQUIRED for demo

- Multiple/additional working set import - 

- Authenticated access to LDP - 


POST-IMPLEMENTATION IMPROVEMENTS

- Interface tweaking/iteration

