# Meeting 8 January 2019

This document: [2019-01-08](./2019-01-08-meeting.md)

Present: GK, JP

## Agenda

Goals of meeting:

    Catch-up review;
    Prepare for following FAST meeting and be ready for discussions at the FAST project workshop about activities for the final phase of the project.

- Set date for next meeting
    - 2019-01-22 10:00 (TBC)
    - (This is just after the FAST project workshop in Nottingham.)
- Review agenda
- Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- Review progress on tasks
- Discuss MELD intreractions per 20181120-4 201812??-1
- FAST showcase re-run? (holding item)

## Resolutions

## Actions

Previous meeting: [2018-12-17](./2018-12-17-meeting.md)

### Previous actions carried forward

- [ ] 20181120-4 GK: investigate LDP interactions as potential MELD additions
    - started; need to clarify React/redux interactions
        - see: [notes/LDP-interaction-notes.md](../LDP-interaction-notes.md)
    - also started on some notes abourt MELD "quilts", prompted by discussions with David Lewis
    - see: [notes/20181214-MELD-music-quilts.md](../20181214-MELD-music-quilts.md)

- [ ] 201812??-1 GK: think more about design for multi-part scores in MELD, and propose some concrete designs
    - see: [notes/20181127-maintaining-sofa-state-as-dmo.md](../20181127-maintaining-sofa-state-as-dmo.md)
    - see: [notes/20181214-MELD-music-quilts.md](../20181214-MELD-music-quilts.md)
    - still need to do code review

### Actions from last meeting

### New actions

ACTION 20190108.1 JP: review github security messages and dependencies (again), maybe more updates needed?

### Next meeting

Next meeting: 2019-01-22 (TBC)

Draft agenda next meeting:

- Set date for next meeting
- Review agenda
- Review actions; note any issues or blockers
- Discuss any changes arising from FAST project meeting
- Review progress on tasks


## Discuss MELD interactions per 20181120-4 201812??-1

There are two strands to this:

1. Looking at existing SOFA interactions with LDP to see if any can be sensibly implemented as MELD "core" features.

2. Thinking about musical score-like structures abnd fragment assemblies as used by a range of MELD applications (in SOFA: this is the fragment grid) to see if there are any useful common patterns we can identify.

On the implementation front, it might be worth re-visiting what is happening in the SoLiD project.

See also:

- https://ruben.verborgh.org/blog/2018/12/28/designing-a-linked-data-developer-experience/

(I'm thinking here that LDFlex looks as if it well suited to the kinds of linked data access poerformed by SOFA.)


## Review of SOFA progress w.r.t. previously articulated tasks

### Completed

- Fragment selection and addition to a score from options offered by constraint filters.

- Multi-voice audio generation.  This is now working by virtue of dropping midi.js and using the soundfont player library directly.

- Note generation that reflects key signature.  This is now working by using MIDI note numbers supplied by NiN, passed in MEI @pnum attributes.

- Deployment images and scripts for SOFA and Numnbers into Notes demo systems.  Implemented based on Docker images

- Gather instrument list from pitch-range matching service.  Also filters instruments presented based on note ranges of available fragments.

- Basic UI for selecting fragments and addiung them to the score under construction (may need to be updated).

- Basic UI for selecting constraints to be used to filter fragments available for selection at any particular cell (will probably be updated - see future considerations).

- Annotation agent for pitch-range compatibility with specified instrument.

- LDP recursive scanning, allowing constraints to be grouped by sub-categories.

- Stable or landmark state software releases in GitHub, tagged.

- Session setup UI, including location of working set and assignment of instruments to each channel, and number of channels.


### Actively considered for development

*NOTE: The ordering proposed here is based not only on perceived importance of the tasks, but also to tidy up loose ends before opening newer cans of worms*

- [ ] Fragment grid interface updates, comprising:

    (WORK-IN-PROGRESS - JP)

    1. Present available and active compatibility filters, with selection option for those that are selectable
        - Implementation started before industry day
        - Main outstanding item: active but non-selectable constraint presentation
    2. Insert (and remove?) column in score
        - May need subsequent investigation and design outline if simple case isn't adequate.
        - Lost work on this due to computer crash; some recovery since.
    3. When changing selected instrument for channel, highlight fragments that are incompatible with the new instrument.
        - Some progress

    Some work done, but some of that lost in system disk failure.
    Current status unclear - still need to restore backup of git data.

    Estimate 3-4d to finish off all items here (following crash).

- [ ] Session save and reload, including UI

    (NOT STARTED)

    Needs re-planning to think about use of DMO framework (i.e. use LDP)

    (GK to focus on code review and come up witn some initial proposals)

    2 days

- [ ] Authenticated access to LDP, and access control for working sets and sessions

    (WORK-IN-PROGRESS - GK)

    The Solid Pod software (see [notes/Solid-investigation-notes.md](../Solid-investigation-notes.md)) supports OIDC and WebId.  I think there's a Jacvascript helper function provided.  The setup scripts may be problematic.

    This may be a non-trivial feature to implement, compared with (e.g.) putting a bare LDP server behind an Apache/nginx proxy authentication.

    GK has tried to match the deployment instructions for Solid 3rd party IDP with Google's IDP setup, and not seeing how to get Google to provide a WebId URL in the user profile.  Next steps would be to actually discuss how to proceed with the Solid/Inrupt team.

- [ ] Design and implementation of NiN output to Working Sets, and triggers for annotation agents to evaluate new fragments as they are added.

    (NOT STARTED)

    Needs design outline before we can estimate.  DDeR may have some input to this.

    Has dependency on directions adopted for use of LDP containers (e.g. see authentication above)

    @@@later: focus on support for this that DDeR can employ for NiN@@@

    This feauture relates to something mentioned in the SAAM paper (what?), so is possibly important.


- [ ] Multiple working sets input, and corresponding updates to the SOFA presentation of fragments.

    (NOT STARTED)

    Needs some thinking about UI and workflow aspects: how should this appear to users?

    See data structure review notes below.
    See also review of MELD interactions discussed separately

- [ ] Generate MEI document for assembled score

    (STARTED, BUT CURRENTLY DE-PRIORITIZED: no progress on this)

    Using the `pnum`s from MEI; use NiN key-signature selection and MEI generation logic

    Multi-track will need extra work; steps to result:

    1. produce MEI from single track (with key sig selection logic from NiN) - 2d
        - still working through key-sig selection based on DDeRs code
        - <1d remaining (probably not in next week?)
    2. produce MEI for multi-tracks for given arbitrarily chosen key sig (proves MEI multi-track generation) - effort TBD
    3. make appropriate key signature choice for use across all tracks - effort TBD

    (DDeR has confirmed that the same key signature should be used across all channels.)

    Step 1 is still incomplete: extracting key-signature selection code from DDeR's code has taken rather longer than expected.  This is pretty much done, so mainly integration to do - remaining effort <1d.

    Steps 2 & 3 still to do: not sure what multi-track MEI should look like.  No estimate yet.


### Future considerations

(Not estimated - generally these need more investigation and design work before it makes sense to estimate implementation effort.)

- Review and tweak interface (Needs wider feedback; open-ended?)

- Run SOFA on a SoLiD pod rarher than GOLD.

- DDeR ideas for deploying SOFA as a public service, with logging so that we can gather information about how people use it.

- Annotation agents adding information derived from audio processing - assumes we have source audio to be analyzed.  (cf. meeting at QMUL on 2018-07-30 [20180730-FAST-qmul-calma-meld])

- Continuous monitoring of working set contents so that annotation agents can analyze new fragments as they are added.  See also "NiN output to Working Sets".  This may require careful engineering to scale up appropriately - see "scaling up".

- Instrument setup based on predefined ensembles?  (This was dropped from earlier plans.)

- Scaling up: refine LDP usage to deal with larger collections of fragments.

- Make LDP access elements part of the MELD libraries.

    ACTION GK investigate LDP interactions with a view to proposals for MELD components (and possible wrappers for performance optimizations)


## Brief retrospective and lessons arising

ATION: GK move this out of meeting notes to separate document

- LDP works well in principle, but possible issues with performance.  No querying.  This all has implications for the SOFA implementation architecture.

- LDP scanning performance isn't great - need to re-engineer to scale up acceptably.  So far, we haven't considered scaling issues in our implementation architecture.

- Currently GOLD in debug mode and no authentication or access control

- GOLD is looking a bit like abandonware.  The Node-based LDP library looks more actively maintained.

- MEI handling is harder than it looks.  Music is messy.

- Midi.js was not really suitable for our purposes.  The underlying soundfont player library seems to be a better fit, and is what SOFA currently uses.

- Key signature selection may prove to be tricky in the details (base principle is to minimize accidentals).


## Discuss SOFA use of React/Redux/Redux-thunk

(React - works on promised and components with own state)

Redux centralizes state into a single state monad.

Redux: normal mechanism is to dispatch a message to update shared state.

Redux-thunk: instead of dispatching messages to update state, provide a function that may itself invoke a chain of asynchronous activities leading to the desired state update.

See notes in LDP-interation-notes.md


## Review data structure design meeting

See: 20181127-maintaining-sofa-state-as-dmo.md  These notes are mainly from a meeting of JP/GK befoire the discussion meeting with KP/DL/JP/GK on 2018-12-04.

(these were notes prepared for the meeting; unfortunately, I can't find any notes from the meeting itself.  We discussed structures and patterns for )

The main goal of the meeting was to discuss whether existing MELD components (e.g. those using SO) were suitable for use with SOFA score representations

We didn't find any existing patterns in MELD that were particularly relevant to our needs, but wopuld proiceed addressing those needs bearing in mind that some of this might be back-ported into existing MELD functionality.  Or something like that.

Also had a chat with GK/DL discussing a range of generalizations of a sequence/grid pattern (dubbed "quilt").  As yet, no concrete design for implementation.

- See: [!images/20181217-quilts-image.jpg](../images/20181217-quilts-image.jpg)

ACTION GK: think more about design for multi-part scores in MELD, and propose some concrete designs.



## FAST showcase re-run?

There has been some mention of a possible re-run of the FAST showcase at Gibson Guitars near Oxford Street.

This is now scheduled for 7 Feb 2019.



