## Terminology proposals for SOFA project and SAAM paper

(Originally circulated 2015-05-02, updated and copied here for ease of reference and further adaptation) 

- **Semantic Signal Generator (SSG)** - a user-facing system that generates
_Annotated Music Fragments_ using specified parameters (semantics).

- **Numbers into Notes (NiN)** - a particular instance of a _Semantic Signal Generator_.

- **Semantic Signal Remixer** (formerly NiN remixer) - a user-facing system that reads _Annotated Music Fragments_ and guides their assembly into _Output Compositions_.

- **SOFA Ontological Fragment Assembler (SOFA)**, or **SOFA remixer** - a particular instance of a _Semantic Signal Remixer_ that we are creating for the SAAM paper.

- **Output Composition Player** - a system that generates an audio performance of a _Output Composition_. (Not part of the current SOFA effort.)

- **Annotated Music Fragment**, or just **Fragment** - a sequence of notes generated by an SSG, along with the parameters that were used in their production (including identification of the SSG used to generate it).

- **Working Set** - a collection of _Annotated Music Fragments_ from which members may be selected for assembly into a _Output Composition_.  (A Working Set is notionally static for any particular Assembly process - i.e., it is not affected by the current sate of the _Working Score_, but a _Semantic Signal Remixer_ may allow its contents to be changed through explicit user interactions.)

- **Compatibility analysis agent** - a software agent that scans _Fragments_ in a _Working set_, and generates _Fragment compatibility annotations_.

- **Fragment compatibility annotation** - a Web annotation that relates a _Fragment_ in a _Working set_ to some other _Fragment_ that it matches according to some criterion, along with metadata about the match.

- **Match type** - identifies a compatibility criteria according to which fragments may be considered for proximate inclusion in a composition (e.g. key signature, fragment length, pitch range, etc.).

- **Match retrieval service** - a Web service that provides access to _Fragment compatibility annotations_, organized by _Working set_ and _Match type_.  In our planned implementation, this is provided by an off-the-shelf LDP server.

- **Materialized matches** - a collection of _Fragment compatibility annotations_ sharing a common match type.

- **Output Composition**, or just **Composition** - an assembly of _Annotated Music Fragments_, possibly with multiple parts or "voices", that can be played as a single piece.

- **Working Score** - a partially assembled _Output Composition_ consisting of selected _Annotated Music Fragments_, currently active selection criteria and current edit position (cursor).  Effectively, this is the internal state used by a _Semantic Signal Remixer_. (This could be internal-only, or maybe materialized to support collaborative modes of working -- further details TBD.)

- **Selection Set** - a subset of a _Working Set_ that is under consideration for selecting a fragment to be added to a composition.  The subset may be determined by implicit semantic criteria derived from the current Working Score and/or explicit semantic criteria specified by the user.

- **Assembly** - the process of creating a _Output Composition_ from a _Working Set_ (involves fragment selection and arrangement).

- **Selection** - the process of choosing a fragment from a _Selection Set_.  This includes indicating any semantic criteria to be applied.

- **Arrangement** - the process of ordering a selected fragments in a _Working Score_. (The language here should not be taken to imply that a selected fragment can be placed anywhere in a _Working Score_;  in practice, it may well be that a position in the working score is selected first, then a fragment selected to occupy that location.)
