# Notes from review of NiN remixer working sets

(WORK IN PROGRESS)

Reviewing:
- notes/Example-WorkingSet-LinkedFragments.ttl (a container of fragment references that constitutes a working set)
- notes/Example-WorkingSet-Fragments.ttl ()

Generally, this all looks sensible.  I'm making some random comments here as they occur to me. 

1. Suggest changing MEI references (per `mo:published_as`) to thalassa (http://beta.numbersintonotes.net), (and copy over the MEI files if necessary).

2. To align more explicitly with current MELD work, I'd suggest adding additional types to working set fragments, e.g. per https://github.com/gklyne/MELD_Climb_performance/blob/master/20171122-MELD-modelling-climb.svg.  Additional types suggested there are `mo:MusicalExpression` and `frbr:Expression`.  This isn't a big deal, but I find it helps to keep track of how things relate.

3. For discussion:  namespace URIs (`http://numbersintonotes.net/terms#` and `http://remix.numbersintonotes.net/vocab#`).  The URI allocation is a bit inconsistent here.  More importantly, how confident are we that we can maintain persistence of these URIs.  I'd be tempted to suggest something like PURLs (or the current favoured form), or use the domain (say) `id.numbersintonotes.net` with paths `/nin#` and `/ninre#` respectively - this would need to be coordinated and agreed with Dave.  Or, alternatively, maybe look to [vocab.ox.ac.uk](http://vocab.ox.ac.uk/index).

4. per discussion, will you be changing `ninre:FragmentLink` to `ninre:FragmentRef` (or similar)?  Or even just `ninre:Fragment`?

5. Property `ninre:fragment` might be `mo:published_as`?

2018-03-22:

6. I now find myself getting confused by notes/Example-WorkingSet-LinkedFragments.ttl and notes/Example-WorkingSet-Fragments.ttl  

    I think these were initially two proposals for by-value and by-reference representation.  We settled on by-reference, so I think the by-value example should be moved away.  EXCEPT that I think we should keep the example fragments available.  My understanding is these are as generated by NiN, so I'd propose a separate file (e.g. `Example-NiN-output-frag1.ttl`) for eachg of these.  This raises a question of whether NiN will generate fragments or working sets.  In any case, I think the fragments need to be separately addressible resources, so maybe put each one in a separate example file.

    I also suggest we might create a separate directories in this github repo for sample data, so it doesn't clutter the notes; e.g.

        samples
            sample1
                mei
                 :
                fragments
                    frag1.ttl
                     :
                workingsets
                    ws1.ttl
                     :





# Discussion

## JPNP (2018-03-21):

1. Yes.

2. Yes, especially the mo: ones.

3. We should do something here.  Either id.numbersintonotes.net or a PURL. Maybe id.numbersintonotes.net for now, and a PURL to it later.

4. Yes, change to ninre:FragmentRef, not sure about ninre:Fragment as the WS entries are not actually fragments.

5. Currently ninre:fragment linking to an mo:MusicalExpression.  Type of mo:published_as is mo:MusicalExpression -> mo:MusicalManifestation, so not sure this works as things stand.


## GK (2018-03-22):

3. I agree.  I think we should confirm the status of PURLs or alternatives befiore committing to that route.

4. OK, re `ninre:FragmentRef`

5. Oh yes, I thought it was referencing an MEI file.  I was thrown by the "mei" in the URI.



