
# Notes on vocabulary choices

Going through the various parts of the [architecture diagram](https://github.com/oerc-music/nin-remixer-public/blob/master/notes/Architecture.svg):

----

## Fragments from NiN:

- What is called a "DMO"

- Music Ontology to reference the score as MEI

((The MELD Climb! modeling I did for MELD has this also linked to FRBR: see "Score for segment for stage" in https://github.com/gklyne/MELD_Climb_performance/blob/master/20171122-MELD-modelling-climb.svg))

- PROV for the "provenance metadata"

((GK: I assume this is as exported by NiN?))

- Probably local vocab for the specifics of the metadata
  (still need to map this)

((GK: Yes - I would suggest inventing something for now, then reviewing and seeing if it can be replaced by or related to any existing vocab))

((GK: I think next step here is to add a diagram and/or example that shows how the vocab parts fit together.))

((GK: I think we also need to figure out how the NiN Provides these to the Remixer - I like the idea of using an LDP container based on an existing LDP implementation; rather like using a file sytem to communicate between applications on a computer.  Then to clarify the full representation of a fragment, which I would expect a mixture of LD and other media resources))

----

## Matched Fragments:

- Represent matches as annotations
    - initially the "compatible key" match
    - there are concepts in the Chord Ontology (http://purl.org/ontology/chord/) which relate to the scales and could be useful
    - there is also a Keys Ontology refered to by Music Ontology (http://purl.org/NET/c4dm/keys.owl)

Further discussion in [Match Architecture](Match-Architecture.md).

----

Working sets:

  A set of fragments used in a Remixer session
    may include one or more previously defined sets
  LDP container(?) with references to include the Fragment DMOs
    can we include by reference the previously defined containers
    (do these change over time?)

((GK: LDP container here sounds handy: it would be good to have some idea of the representation used, but maybe this isn't so critical as (I think) it's internal to the remixer (i.e. not shared with other apps).  It might be handy if the same format used for incoming fragments can be used - only one thing to design!)

----

Assembled score:

  Can use the Segment ontology to map the use of fragments in the composition?
  [Segment Ontology not currently online at: https://www.linkedmusic.org/ontologies]

((GK: Segment Ontology (SO) sounds good - I think this aligns with the Jam session ideas.  I think we need a more complete view of how the bits fit together - I suspect a little more than SO will be needed.))

----

## Output DMO
 
- Similar Provenance information to the input DMOs
    - human decisions in creating the composition
    - also capture the working sets under consideration
- Reference created MEI of the whole output
    - and also input fragments used
    - (the assembled score information)

((GK: I'm not sure what you mean here by "Similar Provenance information to the input DMOs".  Sure, also use PROV. But the processes being described are, I think, a bit different.  I would expect the DMO output to incorporate (or reference) provenance from the fragments used.))

((GK: I think next step here is to add a diagram and/or example that shows how the vocab parts fit together.  I would recommend keeping a little separatiion between the provenance and the content - e.g. don't just lump it all into a single graph))

----

((GK: I've just noticed in the archiecture diagram that you have provenance capture as a separate activity, presented as something like a common service for NiN and the remixer.  I'm not sure this is helpful.  I had assumed that NiN output provenance would be generated by NiN part of the output fragment.  I understood the original provenance capture to be specific to be the remixer, effectively being a record of what happened in what might be considered as a MELD "session".  As such, I would expect the provenance in the output "DMO" to be provided via the remixer export.  The concern I have is that if it's a separate service, it adds another layer of interface to be considered, and could make it harder to scale up as there are more visible moving parts to be coordinated.))

((GK: I'm thinking the notion of a NiN working set should be developed and unified, incorporating fragment media, descriptions, provenance and assembly (where available).  This would mean that the interface between NiN and the remixer, the remixer work-in-progress, and the final output could all be supported by a common desgn and interface service.  It would also mean that remixer outputs, possibly combined with additional NiN activities, could be used as input to subsequent remixer sessions.))

